# Day Two | Types and Varibles

**Polymorphism** - a single construct can have more than one meaning depnding on how it is used

"+" is polymorphic in java because it can mean concatenation or addition

## Primitive Types
- byte | -128 to 127
- short | -32768 to 32767
- int | -2 billion to billion
- long | -10^19 to 10^19
- float | -10^38 to 10^38
- double | -10^308 to 10^308 | Like floats
- char | any character
- boolean | true or false

**Variables** - a way to label a spot in memory to hold a value of the type of the variable  
**Initialize** - the first time we assign a value to a variable is called initializing the variable  
**Declaration** - when we create a variable with a type and name  
**Assignment** - when we give a value to a variable

### Declaration
`int x;` Declares variable X as an int. Saving the needed space for an int in memory.  
`long y;` Declares variable Y as a long. Saving the needed space.  
To declare variables you'll need a type and a name.

### Initialization
Only happens the first time a value is assigned to a variable.  
`x = 5;` Assigns an object to X  

### Assignment
Happens after first initialization, overwrites anything the variable had previously.  
`x = 7;` Sets X to 7

### Declaration and Assignment
`int x = 8;` Declares X as an int and then sets it to 8

>*How would we delcare and init a double with a value of 3.7?*

`double d = 3.7;` Declare var and set  
`char c = 'a';` Needs a single quote  
`boolean b = true;` Bools are lowercase  

>Is this okay?  
```java
int x = 5;
int y = 7;
x = y;
```
Yes

>How about this?
```java
double x = 3.7;
double y = x;
```
Yes

>This?
```java
char c;
char c2 = c;
```
No c is empty, literally empty memory space

## Casting
Allows the automatic changing of types

Chars can be casted into ints and vice versa.  
Ints can be casted into floats & doubles.  
Ints and floats can be added together.  
Double quotes and single quotes are not interchangable. Going to have to escape double quotes in strings.  

To cast a variable into another you need () with the new var type inside the (). IE: (int), (char), etc.

