# Presocratics

Very lacking amount of books and sources.  
Some quotations. Some testimony(what they believe instead of what they said). 

All identified one basic thing. All phusikos(someone who studies nature)

## Thales
Identified: Water
>Water is the **arche** of all things
- Arche is the main principle
- Why Water?
  - omnipresent
  - cleansing
  - needed for life
  - Lived in Miletus
- Main Principle Definitions
  - All things are made of water
  - All things come from water(Origin Theory)
  
Supposed said that the Earth **rests on** water.  
Which explains the occurance of earthquakes. 

>Soul is a **motive** force.

>All things are full of **gods**

## Anaximander
Identified: The Apeiron
>The Apeiron is the arche of all things

**Apeiron** - the boundless/limitless
#### What is the apeiron?
- physical stuff
- indefinite in kind
  - not water, fire, nor air
  - neither wet nor dry
  - neither hot nor cold
- spatially unlimited
- surrounding the universe
- eternal
- constantly moving
- the source
- is divine(not concious)

Apeiron > Intermediate Stuff > hot/cold Earth  

### The Fragment
- cycle of
  - birth/death
  - composition/decomposition
  - seasons
  - opposites
  - conflict
- justice/penalty/retribution
  - natural order
  - conservation of matter
## Anaximenes
Identified: Air
>Air is the arche of all things  
Air is eternal, unlimited, divine

#### Why Air?
- Everywhere
- connected to life
- malleable

Through **rarefaction & condensation**  
**Rarefaction** - less dense > becomes hotter = fire  
**Condensation** - more dense > wind > water > earth > stone  
Air becomes all things