### Monday (9/16/19) Information
Read PBS Chapter 10  
Quiz #2

---

## Wisdom Literature

A group of texts around the world given practical advice on how to live. A handbook of how to live. Located in Egypt, Mesopotamia, the Bible, Greece, & Rome.  
Ptahhotep - political figure in Egypt. Writings as early as 1200BC.

## Ptahhotep
Called the Maxims.  

>1.  ‘‘Do not be haughty because of your knowledge,
But take counsel / with the unlearned man as well as with the learned,
For no one has ever attained perfection of competence,
And there is no craftsman who has acquired (full) mastery.
Good advice is rarer than emeralds,
But yet it may be found even among women at the grindstones.

Ptahhotep is explaining that just because you're smart you shouldn't go flaunting it around to everyone. Instead, go and teach people who aren't as smart. And if there are people who are just as smart as you talk with them and share knowledge with each other.

>9. If you engage in agriculture, and (your) field prospers, And God causes it to increase under your hand, Do not talk (about it) incessantly around your neighborhood, For it is important that one should practice the discretion appropriate to the prudent man. It is the man of integrity who is the possessor of (true) wealth, And in the court he conquers like a crocodile. Do not praise him who has no children, Neither speak ill nor boast about it, For it is common that a father may be in misery, And as for a mother who has given birth, another may be happier than she. It is the lone man / of whom God takes care, And the head of a family may pray for someone to succeed him

Don't brag about prosperities and the such. Keep yourself humble.

>12. That one about sons being assholes.

If your son is a good person and listens to what you say and repeats the same feelings about life with you then you should keep him in your family as he is good towards god. If your son is a bad person get rid of him as soon as possible.

>14. Surround yourself with good people

Surround yourself with trustworthy people that won't talk behind your back and will be able to properly talk about you in the way you want to be seen in others' eyes. 

#### Other people's picks

>18 & 21

Nothing comes good from talking/going after women. Women were seen as being able to control others and can easily deceive other people. Temptation to talk to someone else's wife and something might end up happening. 

>37

If a women is a silly person, don't try to bring her down to Earth instead use her as amusement. 

>32

Don't sleep with traps. If you sleep with this boy he will become more feminate and do the same thing more and more. 

>16

When you're a leader do the right thing. Keep your promises. Don't do things you shouldn't do.

#### The Virtues
- humility, modesty
- good listener
- self-control
- careful with speech
- don't waste time
- trustworthiness
- forsight
- seek good at the whole


## Hesiod
Agriculture worker.

- Prometheus myth
- Pandora & her box/jar

Human life is filled with trouble, suffering and all the such. Making life hard. 

- Myth of the 5 ages
  - gold
  - silver
  - bronze
  - demigods
  - iron

A picture of decline because of the jar. 